In the last section we started investigating the life cycle of a container by using the Docker, Create
and Docker start commands.
We're not going to start to investigate the status of some of those containers that we've already started
up on our machine, but have closed down for some particular reason.
So we can print those all out with Docker dash, dash all.
You'll notice that I have just one container listed as exited now, whereas before I had like 30.
The reason for that is that I ran a command between the last video and this one to kind of par down
that list.
And of course, I will show you that command in just a second as well.
So at this point, the only stopped or exited container that I have on my machine is this one right
here.
Let's try creating and running and then stopping one more container just to make sure that we're kind
of on a level footing.
So I'm going to execute Docker run.
Busy box echo.
Hi there.
If I then do Docker, PS, Dash, Dash all again and then zoom out so I can see this a little bit better.
There we go.
I'll see the idea.
That container.
I'll see the echo.
Hi there.
And I can definitely verify that it's status is definitely excited.
Right now when a container is exited, we can still start it back up.
So just because a container stop doesn't mean that it's like dead or cannot be used again.
We can very easily stop and then start containers again at some point in the future to start a container
back up.
We can take its ID and then execute Docker start.
And paste that ID in.
Remember that if we use Docker, start without the dash a flag, however, we won't see any output from
it.
And so it might be a little bit more useful to do a Docker, start dash and then the ID.
And when I do that you'll notice that it printed out Hi there again, which is kind of interesting.
Let's take a look at a diagram to really understand this entire series of commands that we just issued.
All right, here we go.
So we've got our busy box image, and at some point in time, we definitely ran Docker Create or Docker
Run that took our file system snapshot and essentially got a reference to it inside the container.
We then provided that override command of echo.
Hi there.
So that was the primary running command inside the container.
That command ran it, then completed the container, exited it naturally, and we then ran the Docker
Start Command a second time.
What happened was the running process or this primary command was issued a second time inside the container.
When you have a container that's already been created, we cannot replace that default command.
As soon as you start it up with the default command, that's it.
The default command is then in place.
So we cannot do something like, say, Docker, start dash the ID and then try to replace the default
command.
I can't do something like echo by there, so in theory this would be us trying to replace the default
Again, can't do that.
And if we try to run it, let's go into misinterpret the command that we just issued.
It's thinking that we're trying to start up multiple containers at the same time.
So once we have started up a container and let it exit, we can start it back up again, which is going
to re-issue the default command that was used when the container was first created.
All right.
Now, it might seem like going over all this lifecycle stuff is kind of unimportant.
It might seem like I'm going really far into the weeds with it, but trust me, having a solid understanding
of the lifecycle of a container is going to be so incredibly useful later on when it really comes down
to figuring out how to troubleshoot these things and debug a running container.
So I think we got a better idea on the lifecycle of a container.
So let's take another quick break and continue in the next section.